I. Recovery Time Object (RTO)

Recovery Time Object (RTO) is the amount of time or real time during or after a disaster that can elapse without a business restoring its services and processes
to acceptable levels before it will experience intolerable consequences associated with the disruption.

The RTO answers the question: “How much real time will it take the business to recover after notification of the business process disruption?”

1. Minimum RTO for a single AZ outage
RTO timing requires initializing a new RDS instance and applying all changes since the last backup, in case of multi-AZ deployment, the standby instance is already
running and data is replicated synchronously. It takes from 60-120 seconds
In the event of a planned or unplanned outage of your DB instance, Amazon RDS automatically switches to a standby replica in another Availability Zone if you have enabled Multi-AZ.
The time it takes for the failover to complete depends on the database activity and other conditions at the time the primary DB instance became unavailable.
Failover times are typically 60–120 seconds. However, large transactions or a lengthy recovery process can increase failover time

2. Minimum RTO for a single region outage
In this case RTO timing requires initializing a new Amazon RDS instance and then applying all
changes since the last backup, it takes only from 30 minutes to 1 hour. However, if the time to bring read replica as a standalone primary instance takes 15-20 minutes and the time to connect the new endpoint takes from 15-120 minutes,
so it will take from 45 to 60 minutes.

II. Recover point objective (RPO)
Recovery point objective (RPO) is defined as the maximum amount of data – as measured by time – that can be lost after a recovery from a disaster, failure, or comparable event before data loss will exceed what is acceptable to an organization.
RPO, which is also expressed in hours, represents how much data you could lose when a disaster happens. For example, an RPO of 1 hour means that you could lose up to 1 hour’s worth of data when a disaster occurs.
1. Minimum RPO for a single AZ outage
For the single AZ scenario, it takes at least once a day for a full snapshot, every 5 minutes for transactional log backups. However, other scenarios can be takes only 5 minutes:
a. Database deletion
b. Manual snapshots availability

2. Minimum RPO for a single region outage
During initial setup and installation time, it takes minimum 15-20 minutes for system to get into Available state.
If we have a complete read replica in another region, there will be no data loss